---
layout: recipe
title: Simone's Cheese Perogies
category: sides
tags: Ⓥ 
---
Traditional Canadian/Ukranian perogie recipe.

Filling:

- 8-10 potatoes
- 2 c shredded mozza or cheddar cheese
- 1 onion, finely chopped
- 4-6 strips cooked cumbled bacon (optional)
- 6 tbs. butter
- 1 cup chopped onion
- salt and pepper to taste

Peel and cut potatoes into cubes. Boil until tender.Reserve cooking water for dough. 
Saute onion in better, set aside to cool. 
Mash potatoes and place in a bowl. 
Add onion with the butter, cheese and bacon, season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix well. 

Dough:

- 2 ¼ c reserved potato water
- 6-7 c flour
- 2 eggs
- 1 ½ tsp. salt
- 6 tbs. vegetable oil

Note: You will need two batches of dough for all of the filling, but don't double the recipe. The dough is nicer in small batches.

Combie potato water, eggs and oil. Mix well. Combine flour and salt in a large bowl. Make a well in the center. Pour water/egg mixture into well and stir until mixture is smooth.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead several times. 
Place dough in well-greased bowl, turning dough once and cover. Let rest for minimun 20 minutes for 2 hours.
On a lightly floured surface, roll dough out to about 1/8 inch thickness.
Cut dough into circles with a large biscuit cutter or coffee mug. 
Fill with about 1 tsp. of potato mixture. Pinch edges together so the seam is secure. 

Cooking:
Bring a pot of water to a boil. Place several perogies into the water. Boil until the perogies pop to the surface.

Freezing:
Place perogies on baking sheets lined with waxed paper and freeze.  Once frozen, place into a large zip lock bag and return to freezer for storage.
